# Why virtual member function can not be used with template?

The main reason virtual member functions cannot be used with templates in C++ is due to the way templates and virtual functions are handled by the C++ language.

Virtual functions are a part of C++'s runtime polymorphism mechanism. They are used in base classes to ensure that the correct function is called when a derived class object is assigned to a base class pointer or reference. The correct function to call is determined at runtime based on the actual type of the object.

On the other hand, templates are a compile-time construct. They generate code at compile time based on the types used to instantiate the template. Because templates are resolved at compile time, the compiler generates different code for each type used to instantiate the template.

The mismatch between compile-time (templates) and runtime (virtual functions) is the primary reason why you can't use virtual functions with templates in the way you might expect.

For example, consider the following code:

```cpp
template <typename T>
class Base {
public:
    virtual void foo() = 0;
};

class Derived : public Base<int> {
public:
    void foo() override {}
};
```

This code will compile and work as expected, because `Base<int>` is a specific instantiation of the template, and `Derived` is a concrete class that can provide an implementation for the pure virtual function `foo()`.

But if you try to do something like this:

```cpp
template <typename T>
class Base {
public:
    virtual void foo() = 0;
};

template <typename T>
class Derived : public Base<T> {
public:
    void foo() override {}
};

Derived<int> d;  // This will fail
```

This will not work as expected. The problem is that `Derived<int>` is a specific instantiation of the `Derived` template, but `Base<int>` (which it inherits from) is not a specific class, it's a class template. The compiler cannot know at compile time all possible instantiations of `Base<T>`, so **it cannot generate the vtable** needed for the virtual function to work correctly.

In summary, the main problem is **the mismatch between the runtime nature of virtual functions and the compile-time nature of templates**. This doesn't mean that templates and inheritance cannot be used together, but it does limit the ways in which they can be combined.