# Why do we have to include vector.cpp in vector.h since it's a template class?

In C++, templates are not regular functions or classes. They are the blueprints for generating a function or class at compile time. 

When the compiler encounters a template definition (like `template <class T> class Vector {...}`), it does not actually generate any code. Instead, it waits until it finds an instance of the template being used somewhere in the code (like `Vector<int>`). At that point, it uses the template to generate a specific version of the function or class (in this case, a version of Vector where every instance of `T` has been replaced with `int`).

This process is called instantiation. The key thing to note here is that instantiation happens at compile time, and it requires the full definition of the template. This is why we typically see both the declaration and the definition of templates in header files.

In summary, the compiler needs to have access to the entire template definition (not just the declaration as with normal functions or classes) in order to generate code for specific template instantiations. This is why the implementation of the template class (Vector.cpp in your case) needs to be included in the header file (Vector.h).









so what will happen if i include .cpp file in a header file when compiling(g++ -c)?



The `-c` flag in g++ tells the compiler to generate object files from source files. It compiles or assembles the source files, but does not link. The output is one `.o` file (object file) for each source file.

When you include a `.cpp` file into a header file, the contents of the `.cpp` file will be inserted into the header file. **If this header file is included in multiple source files, then the code from the `.cpp` file will be compiled multiple times.** This could lead to multiple definitions of the same function or class during the linking stage, resulting in a linker error.

However, in the specific case of template classes, the standard approach is to include the implementation in the header file. This is because templates are not compiled the same way as regular classes or functions. Instead, they are instantiated where required, and so the implementation needs to be visible to the compiler wherever the template is used. 

The approach of including the template class implementation in the header file is essentially treating the `.cpp` file as if it were a header file itself, so it works in this special case. However, it is not the general practice for non-template classes or functions.





if for a template class, we include .cpp in .h, then do we need to include .h in .cpp?

Typically in a non-template class, you would separate your declaration (in the .h file) and your definition (in the .cpp file), and you would need to include the .h file in your .cpp file.

However, with template classes, the entire definition needs to be available at compile time. Therefore, the definitions of the template class and its member functions are usually all included in the .h file. In this case, there's no need to include .h in a .cpp file, as there's no .cpp file associated with the template class.

If you do separate the declaration and definition of a template class into a .h file and a .cpp file, you would include the .cpp file at the end of the .h file. This way, when the .h file is included in another .cpp file, the entire template class definition is available. But remember, in this case, the .cpp file is not a typical source file that you would compile separately, but more like an extension to the .h file. Thus, there's no need to include .h file in this .cpp file, because it's already part of the .h file's contents.

Note that some people prefer to use a .tpp extension (instead of .cpp) for the file containing the template definitions, to make it clear that it's not a typical source file.





so when compiling , i don't need to include the .cpp right?

Correct. When you are compiling a program that uses a template class, you only need to include the .h file (which includes the .cpp or .tpp file internally) in the source file that uses the template. 

You do not need to, and indeed should not, directly compile the .cpp/.tpp file associated with the template class. The template definitions in that file will be compiled as they are included in the other source files that use the template. This is because templates in C++ are compiled on demand, meaning they are only compiled when they are instantiated with specific types in your code.

So, in your build process, you don't list template .cpp files for building. Only .cpp files that contain non-template code should be passed to the compiler. The header files (.h) with the template definitions included should be enough for the compiler to compile the template code correctly.