# Can a static member function be const?

A static member function in C++ cannot be declared as `const`, and the concept of `const`-ness does not apply to static member functions in the way it does to non-static member functions. This is because `const` applies to the instance of the object on which the member function is called, affecting the `this` pointer to ensure that the member function does not modify the object. Static member functions, however, do not operate on an instance of the class and do not have a `this` pointer. They are called on the class itself, rather than on an object instance, and thus the notion of modifying the object's state does not apply.

Here's a summary to clarify:

- **Non-static member functions** can be declared as `const`, which prevents them from modifying any non-static data members (except those marked as `mutable`) and from calling any non-const member functions on `this` object. This is because `const` member functions guarantee that the state of the object will not be changed when they are called.
- **Static member functions** do not have a `this` pointer because they do not operate on an instance of the class. Since there is no object instance to protect from modification, declaring a static member function as `const` is neither necessary nor allowed. The `const` qualifier simply does not apply to static functions.
- **Static member functions are not `const` by default** because the concept of `const`-ness is not applicable to them. They can modify static data members and call other static member functions regardless of `const` qualification because they operate at the class level, not the instance level.

To summarize, the `const` keyword is used with instance member functions to indicate that the function does not modify the object on which it's called. Since static member functions do not operate on an object instance, the concept of `const`-ness does not apply to them.